<!-- This is the markdown template for the final project of the Building AI course, 
created by Reaktor Innovations and University of Helsinki. 
Copy the template, paste it to your GitHub README and edit! -->

# AI AI, Chef

Final project for the Building AI course

## Summary

This project aims to create an AI model that will create new recipes based on the user's preferences. The user can tell what type of food they want, a specific type of meal, the food of a certain culture, or just some ingredients that they want to work with. AI AI, Chef will then create new recipes from scratch with instructions and
present these to the user.

## Background

* Chef's block, stuck creatively in the kitchen?
* Want to try something new, but don't know what?
* Do you have some random ingredients that you don't know how to combine?

AI AI Chef will solve all of the above mentioned problems using a novel method for creating brand new recipes. Currently, these problems are mostly solved by googling recipes, or maybe watching some YouTube videos for inspiration. That's no fun, though! Something more fun would be to try something _completely_ new, and seeing what
the chef has planned for dinner! Curiosity is the main motivation in this project, and seeing if the problems above could be solved using some AI methods, and to see if the recipes that are generated are not only edible, but actually taste good.

Since there is a risk of AI AI Chef creating something horrible, not only bad tasting, but even lethal, it would be interesting to try to tackle the problem of creating safe recipes. Creating recipes that are safe for human consumption, but that are completely new, could translate into other applications where novel mixtures of various chemicals/substances/ingredients would benefit from the findings in this project.

## How is it used?

AI AI Chef is hosted on a website and is therefore accessible from any device with a compatible browser. The users would use the application either before shopping, or before cooking when they want to try something new, really new. By entering keywords, e.g. _korean, ribeye, carrots_, the user would be presented with 10-20 recipes generated by AI AI Chef in the style of Korean cuisine contatining ribeye and carrots. The recipes are complete with a list of ingredients, and cooking instructions, presented to the user for immediate use.

Anyone who is into cooking would use AI AI Chef, even people who are not into cooking might still want to just see how a completely AI generated recipe would look.
Since safety is in important when dealing with food, there would also be support to exclude certain ingredients due to allergies/preferences or other reasons.
By using exclusion terms, e.g. _koreon, ribeye, carrots, -banana_, AI AI Chef would not include any bananas in the recipe.

## Data sources and AI methods

The data would be collected and a corpus of recipes from all over the world would need to be created. These recipes would need to be tagged with not only preparation data, (how long do you need to cook chicken?), but to also have tags regarding to which countries, cultures, styles, and other categories the recipes belong. A map with data of how ingredients combine and taste together is crucial not only for taste reasons, but also for safety just in case some combination of ingredients would create an undesirable reaction. The collection and creation of this corpus is in itself a big task.

## Challenges

The main challenge is to _not_ create recipes that are harmful. To _not_ suggest anything that the user might be allergic to, or to suggest undercooking fish, for example, or even to suggest something that when combined might be outright dangerous for human consumption. The second biggest challenge would be to suggest recipes that actually taste good, however that is measured, since it is individual.

## What next?

After succesfully creating AI AI Chef as a web accessible application, the next step would to be to create some kind of chef robot, running this application.
Not only would the software generate brand new recipes, some suitable hardware would then cook the recipe and serve it, perhaps in a restaurant where the only chef is AI AI Chef. Aside from that incredibly ambitious next step, maybe something more feasible would be to simply map the different food cultures of the world to some interactable interface for browsing.
